.TH MIME-EMAIL 1 "2025-12" "mime-email" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
mime-email \- generate a MIME-formatted email message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mime-email
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mime-email
constructs a MIME-formatted email message from command-line options and an optional body file.
The resulting message is written to standard output.

The message body is taken from
.IR FILE ,
from standard input when
.I FILE
is "\-",
or from standard input when
.I FILE
is omitted.

The following requirements apply:

.IP \[bu] 2
.B --from
must be specified.

.IP \[bu]
At least one of
.BR --to ,
.BR --cc ,
or
.BR --bcc
must be provided.

.IP \[bu]
At most one FILE may be specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --from \fIADDR\fR
Set the sender address.
A display name may precede the address when multiple words are given;
the last word is treated as the address.
This option is required.

.TP
.B --to \fIADDR\fR
Add a recipient address.
A display name may precede the address when multiple words are given.
May be given multiple times.

.TP
.B --cc \fIADDR\fR
Add a Cc address.
A display name may precede the address when multiple words are given.
May be given multiple times.

.TP
.B --bcc \fIADDR\fR
Add a Bcc address.
A display name may precede the address when multiple words are given.
May be given multiple times.

.TP
.B --subject \fITEXT\fR
Set the message subject.

.TP
.B --date \fISTRING\fR
Set the Date header.
This option accepts any string without validation, but the output of
.IR date -R
is recommended.

.TP
.B --attach \fIFILE\fR
Attach a file to the message.
May be given multiple times.
The MIME type is determined by invoking
.IR "file --mime-type" .

.SH BODY INPUT
.B FILE
specifies the message body file.
If
.B FILE
is "\-" or omitted altogether, the body is read from standard input.

.SH EXAMPLES

Generate a message from a body file:
.PP
.nf
mime-email --from a@example.com --to b@example.com body.txt
.fi

Use a display name with an address:
.PP
.nf
mime-email --from "Alice Smith a@example.com" --to "Bob b@example.com" \\
           --subject "Hello" body.txt
.fi

.PP


Send a message with multiple Bcc recipients:
.PP
.nf
mime-email --from a@example.com --to a@example.com \\
           --bcc 'b@example.com' --bcc 'c@example.com'
.fi

Send a message directly via msmtp:
.PP
.nf
mime-email --from a@example.com --to b@example.com \\
           --subject "Test" body.txt | msmtp -v -t
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mail (1),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR date (1),
.BR file (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kazune Iga

.SH VERSION
Thu Dec 11 14:53:14 JST 2025

